The grading rubric should draw upon the short answers provided, including (1) how were students evaluated in academic courses, (2) what learning goals needed to be met, (3) what type of assignments were conducted. Please also draw upon the grading ranges provided. Most importantly, ensure that the writing output is written in a narrative, essay and letter format. Specifically, format the report after the below example:
GRADING POLICY: Our homeschool grading philosophy is that grades reflect how well an individual achieves learning goals. We believe that students should learn to work for the love of knowledge, the excitement of discovery, and the joy of using their minds effectively. Student grades are based on the evaluation of two categories: knowledge and skills, and effort. In keeping with the philosophy that grades should reflect achievement, 75% of a student’s grade is based on knowledge and skills. After students have received instruction and had time to practice, their level of mastery will be assessed through completion of quizzes, tests, essays, speeches, presentations, or projects. These assessments are included in the grade. The other 25% of a student’s grade is based on effort. We believe that learning is a process and students learn through practice. This practice occurs through class discussions and the completion of assignments such as homework assignments, guided readings, exercises, worksheets, and
practice assessments. These assignments serve to monitor and guide student learning and provide teachers and students with feedback on their mastery of skills and content. This formative work will be graded for task completion and participation. 
Students are evaluated through regular discussions between themselves and teachers, and receive evaluations on their performance at midterm and following the completion of courses. Evaluations are specific and intended to indicate to the student his or her level of achievement. A final course grade is recorded, which allows us to provide colleges with a record of academic achievement. 
Letter grades are also assigned as an abbreviated indication of overall performance. Final semester grades are recorded on the student’s official transcript. Letter grades represent the following levels of academic achievement: 
A = performance with distinction 
B = good performance 
C = satisfactory performance 
D = minimally passing performance 
F = failure; no credit 
Letter grades are assigned the following GPA equivalents: A=4.0, B=3.0, C=2.0, D=1.0, and F=0. 

